Member Data Portability (Member)
Article
02/05/2024
1 contributor
In this article
Getting Started
Member Changelog API
Member Snapshot API
LinkedIn is providing the Member Data Portability (Member) API product in response to certain requirements of the Digital Markets Act (DMA). The DMA is a new EU competition law that regulates large online platforms to ensure fair competition, protect consumer rights, and foster innovation in the digital economy. Consistent with DMA obligations regarding end user data access and portability, the Member Data Portability (Member) product provides APIs that allow LinkedIn members to create an application to fetch that LinkedIn member's LinkedIn data.

Getting Started
Request Access
Querying LinkedIn data using the Member Data Portability APIs requires access to the Member Data Portability (Member) API product access to which can be requested from our developer portal.

Create a Developer Application

Create an app on the LinkedIn Developers Platform. A LinkedIn Company Page is required to create the app. Please use the default LinkedIn Company Page created especially for requesting access to the Member Data Portability (Member) APIs - Member Data Portability (Member) Default Company.

 Note

Please do not create a new LinkedIn Company Page while creating the developer application. You will be able to request access to Member Data Portability (Member) API only if you use the default LinkedIn company page - Member Data Portability (Member) Default Company while creating the application.

Request access to API product

From the Products tab of your application, click Request access for Member Data Portability API (Member). Once you agree to the associated Terms and Conditions, you application would be granted access to the Member Data Portability APIs. apply for member data portability api product

Getting an access token
Members can generate an access token via our OAuth Token Generator Tool available in the Developer Portal. Follow these steps to generate an access token.

 Note

At this time, this feature is available only for LinkedIn members located in the European Economic Area and Switzerland, so only those members are able to consent and generate an access token.

Once your application has been successfully provisioned with “Member Data Portability API (Member)” API product, you can generate access tokens via our “OAuth Token Generator Tool”. This can be accessed via the “OAuth Token Tools" under “Docs and tools” drop down menu in the developer portal. select oAuth Token Tools under Docs and Tools

In the OAuth 2.0 Tools, click on "Create token". Click on Create Token

Select the Application which has been provisioned with the Member Data Portability API (Member) API product. Select the application provisioned with Member Data Portability (Member) API Product

Select “r_dma_portability_self_serve” as scope and click on “Request access token”. Select r_dma_portability_self_serve as scope and click on Request access token

You will be redirected to login and provide consent to generate the access token. login and provide consent

Once logged in, you would be redirected to consent to share your LinkedIn Data with your application. Please read through the text and if you agree to consent, click "Allow" consent to share your LinkedIn Data

The access token has been generated, you can start using this access token to make authenticated API calls to download your LinkedIn data.
Access token generated

New Development
Ready to start development? Refer to the links below for guidance on building your application.

Authentication
API Concepts
Breaking Change Policy
Best Practices
Error Handling
Member Changelog API
Once the member has generated an access token, LinkedIn will start archiving all the member's interactions (posts created, comments, reactions etc), from the time the user has consented, on LinkedIn as changelog events. Member Changelog API allows users to query these changelog events. Users can only query changelog events created in the past 28 days. To know more about the API and it's usage, refer the Member Changelog API Documentation.

Member Snapshot API
Once the member has consented to share data with a 3rd party application, LinkedIn will start archiving all the member data (Account History, Articles, Posts) including historical data. Member Snapshot API allows developers to fetch the data pertaining to LinkedIn member(s) at a point in time when an API call is made. The API will return data related to specific domains. To know more about the API and its usage, refer to the Member Snapshot API Documentation.